So hopefully you guys got a chance to try out and implement all of the appropriate solutions for converting
our application over to the Apollo clients local storage from react redux.
Now if you manage to complete it.
Excellent job.
This is definitely an extremely extremely challenging topic because there's so much new stuff that we
have to do with Apollo clients and there's a lot to wrap our heads around regarding resolve versus setting
types.
There's just so much with Apollo client if you didn't.
That's also perfectly fine.
Practice makes perfect the more you try the more you dig through those docs right the more you look
at these solutions the better you'll come out with an idea of what it is that we have to do now.
I'm really proud of you because you guys have done so so so much in this course already.
You've worked the context API you've worked with react redux.
You've worked with redux thanks.
You've worked with redux saga.
You've worked with the graph cool and Apollo client API.
You've worked with firebase.
This is actually way more than most react developers will ever even touch up until this point.
You are pretty much as far as having touched features go and touched a lot of this react ecosystem goes.
You've done pretty much more than almost 70 80 percent of most react developers out there.
So I'm really really proud of and I want to take this moment to really congratulate you on making it
this far now as a final note.
There's a couple of things that I want to mention about Apollo client as well as graft.
Well now it's really hot.
It's a really really really hot topic in the react development world.
In the back and world it's also really interesting because so much has happened with graph QoL that
it's introducing this new way a new standard of doing things.
And it seems in some way to be offering a lot in its value proposition those benefits that I showed
you guys at the start of this section about how to fixes some of the issues with rest is a very valid
solution.
And it's got a very elegant theoretical value.
The problem as you have seen is that it's quite extensive.
It's actually pretty verbose.
And the way that we have to do it is a little bit more strained and I'm not about to say that it's wrong.
That's not to say that it's bad in any way either because react and redux is in itself a pretty steep
learning curve as well.
The big problem with Apollo I find is that it's hard to get that level of adoption because you have
to get the whole team on board with it including your back end team so it's very possible that there's
new companies that will come out that might start with a group of really senior developers in the back
end and the front end that have gone through all this and see the advantages and want to implement it
and take a stab at it.
And it turns out really well the problem with this is that they're charting new territory.
So that's the main tradeoff is the increasing complexity in setting it up especially on the back backend
setting it up in the back and is a little bit more complicated than how it is in the front end here.
So from a business perspective it's a cost that companies might not be willing to take a stab on with
such new technology as a converse to that how it impacts you on the front end.
Is that the Apollo client or any other front end client that consumes and helps manage caching this
data that you're fetching from graft.
Well is still also new technology and this comes a two main caveats.
The first is that the community around these problems that you might encounter are going to be pretty
new with react redux and with sagas.
This has technology has been used so extensively and fleshed out so much that generally any player you
encounter there's probably somebody who solved it numerous times or asked this question numerous times
solve the problem in all kinds of ways.
That is really easy for you to get unblocked because you simply go on line you might check stack overflow
or you might check the actual get hub issues related to the react redux library and you'll find that
the solution is right there and it's very well documented right.
And it's really easy to implement and understand whereas with Apollo client it's still relatively new.
That's not to say the community is not Alvin.
But again it's literally a matter of the length of time and the amount of projects that have adopted
this product to scale.
So those are the first things to consider.
The second is that this paradigm might change new features and new patterns might completely shift in
the coming years as you've seen the Apollo team is trying to move away from this higher order component
style of tackling what it is that we did earlier with the query and the mutation and if you looked at
my solution actually with the checkout item container you'll see that I did it with multiple mutations
here.
So in a very similar way the Apollo team is trying to move away from this and use more of that stacking
style that you saw of nesting components.
Now these are pretty much just the caveats and my opinions on this.
I definitely think that in one way it's good to keep an eye on Apollo but you should primarily still
consider react redux to be your bread and butter because so many enterprise applications are using react
redux.
The increase in complexity is worth the tradeoff.
The tradeoff for that increasing complexity is that your application is way more predictable.
Right.
You have amazing community support around redux.
And honestly as applications scale the redux architecture really does scale very well.
So this is pretty much another thing to consider is that the way that you architect out your folders
you architect your application.
You set up all of your files.
You think about where things need to go that has been tried and tested and it's worked at really really
large scale applications.
That's not to say that these new technologies like Apollo and Graf Q all won't get there either but
at the same time it's literally a matter of waiting it out and maybe seeing and keeping your eye on
it so hopefully this was very useful to you this graph.
Your lesson is definitely one of the more complicated sections that we have.
But again I definitely think you've really leveled up if you've gotten this far with this course.
So with this we're wrapping up our graph QoL lesson which I hope you got a lot out of.
And we'll tackle some of the final things in wrapping up our course in the upcoming next few sections.